I am describing the game Ludu with the help of some figures.
Ludu is a Bangladeshi Native Game. It is well known in this country.
I am describing how to play the game.

Figure 01 shows the instance picture when the game has just started.
There are several buttons named 'Quit', 'Help/About', 'Show Keys', 'Players and Teams'
and 'Start'. First you have to click on ''Players and Teams' button. This button lets you
change player settings.

Figure 02 shows a typical player configuration where there are 4 players and two
teams named 'A' and 'B'. At least two and at most 4 player at a time can play this game.
This is a team based game and it is possible to have four different teams.
In this configuration Rahim and Rana are in the same team. Clicking OK confirms the settings.

After changing the player configuration, clicking 'Start' button will start the
game as shown in Figure 03.At the right side we see that it is player Rahim's turn.
Also his team is visible. The white small display screen also shows the key of this
player: Q and W. Q is Rahim's primary key and W is secondary key. Every player
is assigned with two individual keys for playing. Press and hold the Q key for some time
and release it. Some sounds will make you understand what is happening. By pressing Q you
can move.

Figure 04 shows that Rahim moved his die and scored 1.
But to start playing you have to score 6, that is Chakka.

After some time has passed Figure 05 shows that Latif scores 6, 6 and 2. He can move now.

Figure 06 shows that Latif is moving his pieces. You can experiment with the two keys
to learn how to move.A white downward arrow will help you to move your pieces.
The secondary key lets you move the arrow between your pieces. When you want to move
a piece, you have to bring the arrow next to the piece and press the primary key
to move it. It's simple...

Figure 07 shows a typical instance of this game.

Figure 08 shows that Rahim scored 6 and we see that among the two dies marked 6 and 2, the 6
scored die is surrounded by a light black rectangle. This black rectangle indicates that
the die 6 is currently selected. When we look at the white arrow we see that, Rahim's Red
piece can discard Rana's green piece 6 steps above.As the 6 scored die is selected Rahim can
move 6 step further. Figure 09 shows that Rahim moves 6 step further but Rana's green piece
is not discarded or killed. This is because they are in the same team.


Figure 10 shows that Rana's green piece can discard Karim's blue piece
(near the white arrow). Figure 11 shows that Rana discarded Karim's piece and it is
at the beginning of it's move(killed).


In Figure 12 we see that there is a black downward arrow rather than a white arrow.
This is a special case which indicates that two pieces can move at a time. In Figure 13
two yellow pieces moved at a time. This is called double movement. Enemy players face
dificulties when moving over a doubly grouped pair of pieces. Enemies have to first stay just over the
doubled pieces and at the next turn they can move only. Enemy doubled pieces can only discard
or kill them. Doubled pieces cannot move with odd(not even) scores such as 1, 3 or 5.
They have to move half the way they scored. That is if they scored 6 they will move 3 blocks.
If you have only one pair of double piece to move and you score odd number then
your pieces will not move at all.

The main objective of this game is to reach the center orange colored rectangle
with all of your pieces. The player whose all pieces reach there first has the highest rank.
Figure 14 shows that a red piece has just entered the goal rectangle(called HOME).

Figure 15 shows that Rahim has scored 2 and only two steps to win.

Figure 16 shows Rahim(red) has entered the HOME area and his team Rana(green) had
previously entered HOME. At this moment a melodious music will greet the winners.
At the status screen we see that game is over and winner theam is A.
The second status screen shows the player ranks.

Some concepts are only discussed here. If you want to know more
you have to play more.

To run this game you have to install jdk1.3 in your PC at the C:
drive as shown in Figure 17.

After you have installed jdk you can run the game by just double
clicking the Run.bat file with the mouse as shown in Figure 18.

You can possibly download JDK1.3 from this latest location:
https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/java-archive-javase-v13-downloads.html
If the link is not valid, please search in google to find out "jdk 1.3" runtime.

Thank you all.

-Wasiqul Islam
LinkedIn profile:
https://www.linkedin.com/in/wasiqul-islam/
e-mail: islam.wasiqul@gmail.com
